we have with us Al jazer senior
political analyst Marwan bishara he's
joining us from London I'm sure you
heard what the um Israeli Prime Minister
had to say just a few hours ago when he
gave that press conference notable that
he tried to portray um unity in that
press conference along with his defense
minister do you think that they're
actually United
Marwan I think they're United now
because they feel that there's a common
enemy Hamas and there is a there's a
impossible mission uh which is the
occupation of Gaza and the land Invasion
and hence they need to uh project a
united front but I think behind that
facade there is some serious Division
and uh we can sort of uh boil it down to
three elements the personal one they
hate each other's guts there is no love
lost between these three men especially
the two generals in Nano because briefly
stabbed them both in the back he walked
away and stabbed guns in the back when
they formed a coalition 2020 and guns
would never forget him for that and he
fired his defense minister if you
remember earlier in the year Galant and
then he had to bring him back only under
public and American pressure so these
three people hate each other second
there's there is political difference
between them they think he holds the
ultimate responsibility for the failure
because of his joining with fanatical
ministers fanatical parties that really
drove Israel to the to the extreme right
the fanatical fascist right they believe
the military does have responsibility
but the ultimate responsibility lies
with him and his Reckless politics three
I think they disagreed on the end game
in Gaza the two generals believe it has
to be simply one of breaking hamas's
military capabilities and administrative
presence in Gaza nanyo and his fanatical
allies in the government believe they
need to occupy Gaza assassinate all
Hamas leaders and end Hamas andate Hamas
as an idea the general General thing
this is not doable you cannot fight an
idea or a party or an organization with
tanks and artillery that this is
something that's done much later down
the road for the time being they believe
it's about a military mission right so
then what does this mean what does this
mean for the people of Gaza and and the
unfolding
War yes um I think that's why I sensed
from Netanyahu when he said our our
mission is to defeat Hamas militarily I
think that means he's embracing the
General's idea and America's idea of
what the war is about what the end game
is because America has warned again and
again occupation is a big mistake and
Secretary State blinkin told the
Israelis that they need to apply their
strategies to their endgame and that
again occupation and ending Hamas period
is
not a good uh you know idea as it were
and so now for the time being as you
would say they are united on crushing
whatever they can Crush in terms of
Hamas presence in Gaza militarily and
administratively and that means
continued bombing and that means
probably an invasion how partial or how
comprehensive it remains to be seen they
did not address it we don't know exactly
what it is Galant is speaking about
actually occupying Gaza and imposing a
security regime the Americans think
that's a mistake I think we are 20 days
in and they are trying to make up their
minds as they go along because this is
an impossible mission they kept telling
us for 25 minutes in their propaganda
that this is a long and painful War
because they are preparing the Israeli
public for that and uh Marwan just away
from the Israeli politics for a moment
you saw the protests take place right
around the world um today and over the
past couple of days do you think that
these protests have any impact at all on
the governments and their
positions they do
uh but not a direct one they do in terms
of changing the international mood
because eventually the isra the Israeli
government cannot launch this war all on
its own and if you heard uh president
not president prime minister an who lie
basically lie about the fact that all of
these uh heads of States congratulated
him they probably you know supported him
and whatever and gave him unconditional
support even but even even that now is
weighing because we've seen the
British uh abstain yesterday in the vot
in the United Nations General Assembly
we saw the French vote in favor of uh of
the humanitarian truth so I think we've
seen slowly but surely the public
opinion changing and the leaders needed
to start distance distancing themselves
bit by bit from the uh apocalyptical
plan that Netanyahu is hoping to achieve
in Gaza and perhaps widening the war
against Iran because if you heard him
again clearly today he was saying that
Iran is not just Patron but it's partner
of Hamas in this October 7 operation and
hence he's actually signaling Iran as
the one that's standing behind Hamas
today and hence it needs to be taken
care of this kind of apocalyptical
scenario would probably Drive the West
into another Regional like 2003 that
would be disastrous for for everyone
that's why today in London for example I
mean it was exactly a reminder of the
kind of atmosphere that we saw prior to
the 2003 war against Iraq no one in the
west wants to repeat that kind of
disaster with that kind of a blowback 20
years of war that basically live to
Nowhere all right thank you so much mam
bishar for that analysis from London
thank you